5c symbolic execution content fixed (#1524)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x05c-Reverse-Engineering-and-Tampering.md

##### Symbolic Execution

> Symbolic execution is a very useful technique to have in your toolbox, specially while dealing with problems where one need to find a correct input for reaching a certain block of code. In this section we will use an [Android license key validation](https://github.com/angr/angr-doc/tree/master/examples/android_arm_license_validation "Android license key validation") crackme. We will solve this crackme using symbolic execution. For symbolic execution engine, we will use Angr binary analysis framework. An overview of Angr and its installation instruction has been covered previously in "[Android Basic Security Testing](0x05b-Basic-Security_Testing.md "Android Basic Security Testing")" chapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Symbolic execution is a very useful technique to have in your toolbox, especially while dealing with problems where you need to find a correct input for reaching a certain block of code. In this section we will use an [Android license key validation](https://github.com/angr/angr-doc/tree/master/examples/android_arm_license_validation "Android license key validation") crackme which we will solve by using symbolic execution. For symbolic execution engine, we will use the Angr binary analysis framework. An overview of Angr and its installation instruction has been covered previously in "[Android Basic Security Testing](0x05b-Basic-Security_Testing.md "Android Basic Security Testing")" chapter.
```

> The target crackme is a simple license key validation Android executable. As we will soon observe, the key validation logic in the crackme is implemented in native code. It is a common notion that analyzing compiled native code is tougher than analyzing an equivalent compiled Java code, and hence, often business critical logic is written in native. The current sample application may not represent a real world problem, but nevertheless it provides us enough opportunities to learn the basics of symbolic execution to use them in a real situation. The techniques learned in this section will come handy while dealing with obfuscated native code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The target crackme is a simple license key validation Android executable. As we will soon observe, the key validation logic in the crackme is implemented in native code. It is a common notion that analyzing compiled native code is tougher than analyzing an equivalent compiled Java code, and hence, often business critical logic is written in native. The current sample application may not represent a real world problem, but nevertheless it provides us enough opportunities to learn the basics of symbolic execution to use them in a real situation. The techniques learned in this section will come in handy while dealing with obfuscated native code.
```

The crackme consists of a single ELF executable file, which can be executed on any Android device. To execute the binary file follow the instructions below:

```shell
$ adb push validate /data/local/tmp
[100%] /data/local/tmp/validate

$ adb shell chmod 755 /data/local/tmp/validate

$ adb shell /data/local/tmp/validate
Usage: ./validate <serial>

$ adb shell /data/local/tmp/validate 12345
Incorrect serial (wrong format).

```

> So far so good, but we know nothing about what a valid license key looks like. To get started, open the ELF executable in a disassembler, like Cutter. The main function is located at offset `0x00001874` in the disassembly. It is important to note that this binary is PIE-enabled, and Cutter choose to load the binary at `0x0` as image base address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far so good, but we know nothing about what a valid license key looks like. To get started, open the ELF executable in a disassembler, like Cutter. The main function is located at offset `0x00001874` in the disassembly. It is important to note that this binary is PIE-enabled, and Cutter chooses to load the binary at `0x0` as image base address.
```

> So far so good, but we know nothing about what a valid license key looks like. To get started, open the ELF executable in a disassembler, like Cutter. The main function is located at offset `0x00001874` in the disassembly. It is important to note that this binary is PIE-enabled, and Cutter chooses to load the binary at `0x0` as image base address.

Reviewer 2: I don't like "It is important to note that ...". This doesn't say much. Maybe explain why it's important, or just omit it

> Since this binary is PIE-enabled, Cutter can load the binary at `0x0` as image base address.

![Disassembly of main function](Images/Chapters/0x05c/disass_main_1874.png)

The function names have been stripped from the binary, but luckily there are enough debugging strings to provide us a context to the code. Moving forward,  we will start analyzing the binary from the entry function at offset `0x00001874`, and keep a note of all the information easily available to us. During this analysis, we will also try to identify the code regions which are suitable for symbolic execution.

![Graph of main function](Images/Chapters/0x05c/graph_1874.png)

> At offset `0x000018a8` `strlen` is called, and the returned value is compared to 0x10 at offset `0x000018b0`. Thereupon, the input string is passed to a Base32 decoding function at offset `0x00001340`. This provides us with valuable information that the input license key is a Base32-encoded 16-character string! The decoded input is then passed to the function at offset `0x00001760`, which validates the license key. The disassembly of this function is shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At offset `0x000018a8` `strlen` is called, and the returned value is compared to 0x10 at offset `0x000018b0`. Immediately after that, the input string is passed to a Base32 decoding function at offset `0x00001340`. This provides us with valuable information that the input license key is a Base32-encoded 16-character string. The decoded input is then passed to the function at offset `0x00001760`, which validates the license key. The disassembly of this function is shown below.
```

> The validation function expects a 10-byte binary string, as Base32 encoded 16-character input string totals 10 bytes in raw. With the information about input, now we will look into the validation function at `0x00001760`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The validation function expects a 10-byte binary string, as a Base32 encoded 16-character input string totals 10 bytes in raw. With the information we now have about the expected input, now we will look into the validation function at `0x00001760`.
```

╰           0x00001868      pop {r4, fp, pc}                           ; entry.preinit0 ; entry.preinit0 ;
```

> Discussing all the instructions in the function is beyond the scope of this chapter, instead we will discuss only the important points need for the analysis. In the validation function, there is a loop present at `0x00001784`, and inside the loop there is XOR operation being performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Discussing all the instructions in the function is beyond the scope of this chapter, instead we will discuss only the important points needed for the analysis. In the validation function, there is a loop present at `0x00001784`, and inside the loop a XOR operation is being performed.
```

> 0x00001798      eor r3, r2, r3

The loop is more clearly visible in the graph view below.

![XOR instruction inside a loop](Images/Chapters/0x05c/loop_1784.png)

> A note on XOR encryption, XOR is a very commonly used technique to encrypt information where obfuscation is the goal rather than security. XOR should not be used for any serious encryption, as it can be cracked using frequency analysis. Presence of XOR in such validation logic always require special attention and analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A note on XOR encryption: XOR is a very commonly used technique to encrypt information where obfuscation is the goal rather than security. XOR should not be used for any serious encryption, as it can be cracked using frequency analysis. Presence of XOR in such validation logic always requires special attention and analysis.
```

> Moving forward, at offset `0x000017dc`, the XOR decoded value obtained from above is being compared against returned value from a sub-function call, at `0x000017e8`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving forward, at offset `0x000017dc`, the XOR decoded value obtained from above is being compared against the return value from a sub-function call, at `0x000017e8`.
```

![Decoded values being compared](Images/Chapters/0x05c/values_compare_17dc.png)

> Clearly this function is not complex, and can be analyzed manually, but still remains a cumbersome task. Specially while working on a big code base, time can be a major constraint, and it is desirable to automate such analysis. Dynamic symbolic execution is helpful in exactly such situations. The symbolic execution engine maps a path between the first instruction of the license check (at `0x00001760`) and the code that prints the "Product activation passed" message (at `0x00001840`) to determine the constraints on each byte of the input string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clearly this function is not complex, and can be analyzed manually, but still remains a cumbersome task. Especially while working on a big code base, time can be a major constraint, and it is desirable to automate such analysis. Dynamic symbolic execution is helpful in exactly those situations. The symbolic execution engine maps a path between the first instruction of the license check (at `0x00001760`) and the code that prints the "Product activation passed" message (at `0x00001840`) to determine the constraints on each byte of the input string.
```

![If else Graph](Images/Chapters/0x05c/graph_ifelse_1760.png)

> The constraints obtained from the above steps is passed to a solver engine, which solves the constraints to find an input which satisfies them - a valid license key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The constraints obtained from the above steps are passed to a solver engine, which solves the constraints to find an input which satisfies them - a valid license key.
```

> To initialize Angr's symbolic execution engine, few setup steps need to be performed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initialize Angr's symbolic execution engine, a few setup steps need to be performed:
```

> - Load the binary into a `Project`. `Project` is the starting point for any kind of analyses in Angr.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Load the binary into a `Project`. `Project` is the starting point for any kind of analysis in Angr.
```

> - Load the binary into a `Project`. `Project` is the starting point for any kind of analysis in Angr.

Author: Same questions, should it be in back-ticks or quotes?  It is an API

> - Load the binary into a `Project`. `Project` is the starting point for any kind of analysis in Angr.

Reviewer 3: Fixed, thanks.

> - Pass the address from which analysis should start. In current case, we will initialize the state with the first instruction of the serial validation function. This makes the problem significantly easier to solve because you avoid symbolically executing the Base32 implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pass the address from which the analysis should start. In this case, we will initialize the state with the first instruction of the serial validation function. This makes the problem significantly easier to solve because you avoid symbolically executing the Base32 implementation.
```

> - Pass the address from which the analysis should start. In this case, we will initialize the state with the first instruction of the serial validation function. This makes the problem significantly easier to solve because you avoid symbolically executing the Base32 implementation.

Author: this one doesn't feel right, either it should be "symoblic execution" or "symbolically executing", symbolic executing sounds weird

> - Pass the address from which the analysis should start. In this case, we will initialize the state with the first instruction of the serial validation function. This makes the problem significantly easier to solve because you avoid symbolically executing the Base32 implementation.

Reviewer 3: My mistake. Thanks, I've fixed it :)

> - Pass address of the code block we want the analysis to reach. In current case it being at offset `0x00001840`, where message "Product activation passed" is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pass the address of the code block we want the analysis to reach. In this case that's offset `0x00001840`, where the message "Product activation passed" is displayed.
```

> - Also, specify the addresses we don't want to reach. In current case, we are not interested in  the code block that prints the "Incorrect serial" message at `0x00001854`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Also, specify the addresses we don't want to reach. In this case, we are not interested in the code block that prints the "Incorrect serial" message at `0x00001854`.
```

> > Note that the Angr loader will load the PIE executable with a base address of `0x400000`, add the above identified offsets while passing it to Angr.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note that the Angr loader will load the PIE executable with a base address of `0x400000`, which needs to be added to the offsets from Cutter before passing it to Angr.
```

The final solution script is presented below:

```python
import angr
import claripy
import base64

load_options = {}

# Android NDK library path:

> load_options['ld_path'] = ['/Users/mac/Library/Android/sdk/ndk-bundle/platforms/android-21/arch-arm/usr/lib']

Author: Your observation is correct. It works without it as well. i will remove it.

print base64.b32encode(solution)
```

> Note, in the latter part of the script where the final input string is retrieved, it gives us an illusion of simply reading the solution string from the memory. However, we are reading from the symbolic memory, where neither the string nor the pointer to the string actually exist. Actually it is the concrete value computed by the solver, and it is the same value which we will get if the program is executed to that point.

Author: Nice! this is much better :)

Running this script should return the following output:

```shell
(angr) $ python solve.py
WARNING | 2017-01-09 17:17:03,664 | cle.loader | The main binary is a position-independent executable. It is being loaded with a base address of 0x400000.
JQAE6ACMABNAAIIA
```

> Symbolic execution and other hybrid techniques involving symbolic execution are very useful techniques for analysis. Learning them requires understanding and extensive practice. Another example of using Angr is presented in iOS chapter as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Symbolic execution and other hybrid techniques involving symbolic execution are very useful techniques for analysis. Learning them requires understanding and extensive practice. Another example of using Angr is presented in the iOS chapter as well.
```

> JQAE6ACMABNAAIIA

Author: Agreed. I remember changing it, I think I didn't push that change.  I will update it.
